Doc contribution
================

On this page, you will find the guidelines to contribute to PYLEECAN
documentation. PYLEECAN documentation (aka this website) is generated
with sphinx by scanning the code of the project. You can contribute to
the doc in two ways: by writing docstring (method and object
documentation) or directly some new pages for this website.

Before introducing the doc contribution guidelines, we will present you
the [docstrings](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Docstring) format used in
PYLEECAN modules and we will explain how we generate the documentation
with Sphinx. The generated documentation is available on its own Github
repository [pyleecan-doc](https://github.com/Eomys/pyleecan-doc) where
we will gladly welcome your doc contribution.

Docstring & Sphinx
------------------

### PYLEECAN docstring format

For PYLEECANâ€™s modules documentation, the chosen docstring format is
**numpydoc** which is the most used format by the scientific community
to document projects (and supported by sphinx).

[The numpydoc docstring
guide](https://numpydoc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/format.html) explains
in details how to write docstrings in numpydoc format.

Here an example of docstrings in a PYLEECAN module

``` {.sourceCode .python}
def build_geometry(self, sym=1, alpha=0, delta=0):

    """Build the geometry of the machine

    Parameters
    ----------
    self : Machine
        Machine object
    sym : int
        Symmetry factor (1= full machine, 2= half of the machine...)
    alpha : float
        Angle for rotation [rad]
    delta : complex
        Complex value for translation
    is_simplified: bool
        True to avoid line superposition

    Returns
    -------
    surf_list : list
        list of surfaces needed to draw the lamination
    """
```

You can see the page generated by Sphinx from this docstring
[here](pyleecan.Methods.Machine.Machine.build_geometry.md) and the code
of the method by clicking on **[source]**.

### Sphinx

[Sphinx](http://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/) is used to generate the
PYLEECAN website by parsing the project and generating ".rst" files
(**reStructuredText**) according to the documentation (docstrings:
numpydoc) in each module of the project. These ".rst" files will then be
used by Sphinx to generate the html pages of this website.

To add pages to PYLEECAN website, one can directly add a ".md" file ([Markdown](https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/)) and
regenerate the html pages. You can see the .md file used to generate
each page by clicking on **show source** on the left side bar of each
page.

As example, here is the development main page .rst file:

![](_static/development.png)

Doc contributing guidelines
---------------------------

There are two different ways to contribute to documentation:

-   **By adding docstrings in python modules to document a specific
    segment of code**. For example the function square below, with
    docstrings in the triple quotes.

``` {.sourceCode .python}
def square(param1):

    """Return the square of param1

    Parameters
    ----------
    param1 : type of the parameter (int)
            description of the parameter
    Returns
    -------
    res type of the value returned (int)
        description of the value returned
    """
    res =  param1 ** 2
    return res
```

In this case you then need to commit your modifications and make a pull
request to [submit your contribution](code.contribution.md) to the
[pyleecan code](https://github.com/Eomys/pyleecan) repository. Once your
modifications merged, we will regenerate the doc and update the website
ourselves.

-   **By adding (or correcting) a .rst file**, for instance

    -   if you have developed a new feature and you want to make a
        tutorial, you can add new ".rst" files.
    -   if you have found some errors (typos) in the documentation and
        you want to correct it. In this case you can correct them on
        [pyleecan-doc repository](https://github.com/Eomys/pyleecan-doc) by finding
        and correcting the corresponding "rst" file. You can do that
        directly through Github (it will automatically create a fork
        of the repository in your github account).

Then you should [submit your contribution](integrate.contribution.md) on
[pyleecan-doc repository](https://github.com/Eomys/pyleecan-doc) to
share with the community. After your modifications merged and the html
pages regenerated, the submitted documentation will be available on the
PYLEECAN website.
